>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here is our code for
the partition.
So it's gonna take an array,
and a low and a high.
If it we're doing the whole array,
like we did before,
where just the, we're just gonna
choose the last one, right.
It's a little bit different than
this example where we choose five,
we're just gonna choose the last one.
So in our example, we would just
choose four, just out of simplicity.
And then our previous location is
gonna be the beginning, right.
So it's low and the reason we passed this
every time is because as we're doing
recursion, the high and
low are gonna change.
The arrays are gonna stay the same.
This is an in-place sort.
But the part of the array that we're
looking at is gonna be smaller every time,
hopefully, right, if we're doing it right.
So again, our pivot,
we're just gonna choose the last one.
Pivot location is gonna
start at the beginning.
So, the first time will be four and
this one would be zero, right.
We just start at
the beginning of the array.
This is gonna be the end of the array.
So we're gonna iterate
through the entire array.
And if the element that we're looking at,
right, we'll start at the beginning.
We're gonna loop through the entire array.
Is less than or equal to the pivot.
You're going to swap it
with the pivot location.
And then we're going to increment
the pivot location, when it's less.
Cool?
Otherwise you do nothing.
And you're going to keep doing that.
You're going to keep swapping all the
lesser items to before the pivot location,
and incrementing the pivot
location whenever it's less.
And then at the end,
you're just going to swap
the pivot itself to its
final pivot location.
Here, this pivot location is just
a potential final pivot location until we
have looped through everything,
and then we swap it.
Cool?
Awesome.
And here is the entire thing.
So here we're initializing our low and
high.
We're gonna loop through from low to high,
we're gonna partition.
This is going to return
the the pivot location for
us, so we know the next left and
right we want to work with.
And so you can see here, we referenced
that pivot location to again,
recursively, partition the left and
the right side.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> off screen: So if I was in an interview
and somebody asked not to whiteboard it or
anything, but to just put into words
why Quicksort is more efficient than,
like I don't know, Bubblesort,
or something like that?
What would be, I mean I could say like,
cuz it's in log n but like.
Do you know what I mean?
Is there a good way to
put into words what-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why it's
probably faster?
>> off screen: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So in it's worst
case it's actually not faster.
It actually is n squared in its worst
case but that's very, very unlikely and
has been proven to be so unlikely that
it is kind of not worth worrying about.
But, the reason it's n log n, would that
be a better answer to your question?
Why is it n log n?
Is that what you're asking?
Okay.
So what makes it n log n?
So what makes it n, right,
is the fact that we're looping
through the entire array, right.
We have to loop through the entire array.
That's in, and
the part that makes it log n is
the slicing it in half,
and recursing, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And so, every time you
recurse, you continue to slice it in half,
but you always have to loop
through the entire thing.
So that's n times log n.
So if you were just recursing, and
you weren't having to loop through
the entire array, it would just be log n.
But since we have a linear time operation
inside the recursion, or the recursion's
actually inside the other one, we have
to multiply them, and it's n log n.
And the reason you were asking a couple
days ago, or yesterday, whenever that was,
was why, why is it n log n and
not n or whatever?
We talk about cutting significant digits,
what makes it significant?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's just significant,
the n and the log n are both significant.
>> off screen: Both significant?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
because it shows that it's
slower than linear time, but
it's not quite exponential.
Yeah.
>> off screen: Okay, thank you.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, cool.
All right,
let's reflect.
This was a fun one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we said before,
that remember the pivot location,
oops, only changes when the element
is less than the pivot, right.
So that was a thing.
>> off screen: And also,
>> off screen: You only swap the pivot
when you're done comparing
all of the others.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
one way you can swap the pivot
to the final pivot location at the end,
yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, what else?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's something
that's still a little fuzzy?
>> off screen: Think it might help, like
the partitioning portion of the sorting,
there's different ways to do that.
Maybe you can have different
methods like comparison and
contrasting, kind of like a table or
some kind of visualization,
like summarizing all the different
ways you can do the partitioning
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, absolutely.
Contrast, contract.
Contract that partition,
that sounds dangerous.
Yeah, so, the big takeaway here is that
it doesn't really matter specifically
how you get there, as long as you somehow
get all of the items that are less
than the pivot to the left and
everything that's greater to the right.
Specifically, how many swaps you get
there really doesn't matter, or which
element that you choose for the partition,
for the most part doesn't really matter.
People have all kind of theories and write
research on this but for our use case,
you just have to pick a pivot and
make sure everything to the left is less,
everything to the right is greater and
how you get there is up to you.
Yeah, and there are different kinds.
There's different ways of getting there.
>> off screen: Yeah, even like the first
time you did We kind of like tap the pivot
and the location and in the first swap,
you could do like in two different arrays.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> off screen: So like the first
fork in the length minus one,
with the pivot location and
then you do the pivot and
like so it's kind of.- Yeah, yeah, yeah
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah there's a few
different ways you can do it and
it can be kinda confusing.
Yeah, I get that, cool.
Thank you.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Did anyone
code this out all the way?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No?
Couple people, yeah.
>> off screen: I worked on it, but
I had to look at the solution.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You
looked at the solution?
Cool.
So did you look at the solution and
then go back?
And were you able to do it?
>> off screen: Yeah,
I mean I tried on my own for a while.
And I failed, and I looked at the solution
and went back and saw what I did.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, totally.
Yeah the first time I did Quicksort,
I had to look at the solution too.
Yeah, that's kind of a,
it's pretty abstract,
it's not a straightforward concept.
Who here thinks that if they
needed to implement Quicksort now,
in a non pressure interview situation,
that they could do it?
Okay, and we're just hanging out
eating pizza and coding up Quicksort,
cuz you know, it's Saturday night and
that's what we do.
You don't do that on a Saturday, no, okay.
>> off screen: I think if I could
run it and then when it didn't work,
change some things a few times.
I think I could get it going.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
so if you could debug it?
>> off screen: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If you're
not whiteboarding it, essentially?
>> off screen: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Got it, okay, cool.
Anything else?
Jen, do you have any
thoughts on Quicksort?
>> off screen: That's kind of the same.
[LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
if you could debug it,
you feel like you could get there, but
maybe on the whiteboard, not so much?
Cool, that's fair, awesome.
Yeah, attempt this in your
interviews with caution.
Definitely try to master it before
trying to show off and be cool.
Just start with Bubblesort,
if you need to.
But just remember these facts,
and bring them up,
you're like,
there's Mergesort and Quicksort.
I know they'd be faster, but
let's start with a naive approach and
just go from there.
Make your life easier.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
there's some more Quicksorts for
further study if you're interested